Bubble Sort is the simplest sorting algorithm that works by repeatedly swapping the adjacent elements
if they are in the wrong order. This algorithm is not suitable for large data sets as its average and worst-case
time complexity is quite high.


Bubble Sort Algorithm
In this algorithm:
traverse from left and compare adjacent elements and the higher one is placed at right side.
In this way, the largest element is moved to the rightmost end at first.
This process is then continued to find the second largest and place it and so on until the data is sorted.


Complexity Analysis of Bubble Sort:
Time Complexity:
Best: O(n)
Worst: O(n2)
Average: O(n2)

Auxiliary Space: O(1)
Stability:	Yes

Advantages of Bubble Sort:
Bubble sort is easy to understand and implement.
It does not require any additional memory space.
It is a stable sorting algorithm, meaning that elements with the same key value maintain their relative order in the
sorted output.


Disadvantages of Bubble Sort:
Bubble sort has a time complexity of O(N2) which makes it very slow for large data sets.
Bubble sort is a comparison-based sorting algorithm, which means that it requires a comparison operator to determine
the relative order of elements in the input data set. It can limit the efficiency of the algorithm in certain cases.


1. Difference between iterative and recursive bubble sort?
Ans. Recursive bubble sort runs on O(n) auxiliary space complexity whereas iterative bubble sort runs on O(1) auxiliary
space complexity.

2. Which is faster iterative or recursive bubble sort?
Ans. Based on the number of comparisons in each method, the recursive bubble sort is better than the iterative bubble
sort, but the time complexity for both the methods is same.

3. Which sorting method we should prefer more iterative or recursive bubble sort?
Ans. Both the methods complete the computation at the same time(according to time complexity analysis) but iterative
code takes less memory than recursive one, so we should prefer iterative bubble sort more than recursive bubble sort.
