Complexity Analysis of Selection Sort
Time Complexity: The time complexity of Selection Sort is O(N2) as there are two nested loops:

One loop to select an element of Array one by one = O(N)
Another loop to compare that element with every other Array element = O(N)
Therefore overall complexity = O(N) * O(N) = O(N*N) = O(N2)
Auxiliary Space: O(1) as the only extra memory used is for temporary variables while swapping two values in Array.
The selection sort never makes more than O(N) swaps and can be useful when memory writing is costly.


Advantages of Selection Sort Algorithm
Simple and easy to understand.
Works well with small datasets.


Disadvantages of the Selection Sort Algorithm
Selection sort has a time complexity of O(n^2) in the worst and average case.
Does not work well on large datasets.
Does not preserve the relative order of items with equal keys which means it is not stable.


Complexity = O(n2)
Also, we can analyze the complexity by simply observing the number of loops. There are 2 loops so the complexity is n*n = n2.


Time Complexities:
Worst Case Complexity: O(n2)
If we want to sort in ascending order and the array is in descending order then, the worst case occurs.
Best Case Complexity: O(n2)
It occurs when the array is already sorted
Average Case Complexity: O(n2)
It occurs when the elements of the array are in jumbled order (neither ascending nor descending).


The time complexity of the selection sort is the same in all cases. At every step, you have to find the minimum element
and put it in the right place. The minimum element is not known until the end of the array is not reached.
Space Complexity:
Space complexity is O(1) because an extra variable temp is used.


Selection Sort Applications
The selection sort is used when

a small list is to be sorted
cost of swapping does not matter
checking of all the elements is compulsory
cost of writing to a memory matters like in flash memory (number of writes/swaps is O(n) as compared to O(n2) of bubble sort)



Frequently Asked Questions on Selection Sort
Q1. Is Selection Sort Algorithm stable?

The default implementation of the Selection Sort Algorithm is not stable. However, it can be made stable. Please
see the stable Selection Sort for details.

Q2. Is Selection Sort Algorithm in-place?

Yes, Selection Sort Algorithm is an in-place algorithm, as it does not require extra space.


